AI is forcing me to change how I manage
my money. You see, I've made millions
from investing over the past 35 years.
And most of that success has come from
one simple strategy.
>> An S&P 500 lowcost index [music] fund
>> S&P 500 index fund like
>> S&P American
>> the S&P 500
>> the S&P 500 [music]
>> has returned an average of over 10% per
year.
>> This is known as passive [music]
investing as your money automatically
gets split between the top 500 companies
[music] in the USA. So rather than
having to actively pick winning stocks,
you instead just buy a small piece of
all of them. The idea is that even if
some stocks crash, [music] owning lots
of them protects you and you still
benefit as the overall market grows. I'm
not going to lie, over the years, this
has been proven to be a fantastic
strategy. As I've said, I've earned
millions doing exactly this. However,
after making my last video about a
potential AI bubble, I sat down,
reviewed my investments, and made a few
changes. So, in this video, I'm going to
be revealing the five things I changed
because of AI.
Believe it or [music] not, for every
dollar you invest into the S&P 500, 40
cents of it will go into just 10
companies. These companies are Nvidia,
Microsoft, Apple, Alphabet, Amazon,
Broadcom, Meta, Tesla, Berkshire
Hathaway, and finally JP Morgan. As of
filming this video, these companies
currently make up a whopping 40% of the
entire index fund. What's even more
concerning is that Nvidia alone will get
between 7 to 8 cents of every dollar you
invest into the S&P 500. This is because
the index fund is called market cap
weighted, which simply means the more
valuable a company becomes, the bigger
slice of the fund it takes up. So what's
actually causing these companies to
become more and more valuable? Well, if
we put Berkshire Haway and JP Morgan to
one side for a moment because they don't
really fit the same pattern, something
interesting starts to happen. What we're
left with is a group of companies that
share one very specific trait. They're
all spending aggressively on the same
thing, AI. You might be thinking,
"That's great. AI is the future. So,
this all makes sense." However, not so
fast. For all these AI companies to
justify their current valuations, they
would need to make around $2 trillion in
revenue. To put that into perspective,
that's more than Nvidia, Microsoft,
Apple, Alphabet, Amazon, and Meta
combined in 2024. This shows these
companies at the top of the S&P 500
aren't being valued based on what they
earn today, but on what investors expect
them to earn in the future. Now, this
isn't a major issue on its own, as it's
very common for companies to be valued
on their future potential. However, it
is quite worrying when it's all linked
to one type of technology. These
companies are all essentially making the
same bet that AI is the future and
they're financing it with a ton of debt.
A great example of this is Sam Orman
saying he's willing to commit $1.4
trillion in spending for AI
infrastructure when his company Open AI
is currently only making 13 to 20
billion in yearly revenue. A lot of this
debt is also pretty hidden. As I
discussed in my last video, these
companies are bumping up their
valuations by passing money around to
each other. It's a whole complicated
mess. Long story short, it's all a
massive feedback loop that keeps
reinforcing itself. Bigger companies
attract more passive investment, which
pushes their prices higher, giving them
a bigger share of the S&P 500 and
therefore even more money to grow from
passive index fund investors just like
us. This is having a knock-on effect of
making the US economy look strong.
However, data from Deutsche Bank
actually argues that if it wasn't for AI
spending right now, then we'd already be
in a recession. So, what if instead of
prioritizing the biggest companies, we
could spread our money equally across
every company in the S&P 500? Well, we
actually can with something called an
equal weighted S&P 500 index fund. And
on the surface, it looks like the
perfect solution. Instead of having 40%
concentrated in the top 10 stocks, it's
around 2% as every company is treated
equally. By investing in something like
this, there is no doubt that you're less
exposed to the potential AI bubble
that's currently forming. However, it's
not the perfect solution because by
trying to limit the money going into
larger companies, it might actually lead
to a much bigger problem as it follows
something called a negative momentum
approach, which sounds complicated, but
it's really not. All it means is that
when a company in the S&P 500 starts to
take off, think Tesla during its big
run, the fund automatically sells some
of it as it rises and uses that money to
buy companies that haven't gone up. So,
you're effectively selling the winners
and buying the losers purely to keep
everything balanced. On the flip side, a
normal S&P 500 index fund that's market
cap weighted doesn't need to trade
nearly as often. When a company gains
momentum, it's simply allowed to take up
a bigger share of the index. Instead of
trimming the winners, the fund gradually
reduces exposure to smaller companies to
make room for the larger ones. But why
does this matter? Well, the more a fund
trades, the higher the costs are.
Therefore, it's something that's often
overlooked and can eat [music] into your
gains. That's why although I'm putting
less money into the S&P 500, I'm still
keeping the majority of my stock market
portfolio in the regular market cap
weighted version. So now I freed up some
of my money from the S&P 500. The real
question is where is it going? Well,
that brings me on to
I want you to imagine for a moment that
the biggest stock market returns over
the next 20 years don't come from the
USA. I know that might sound crazy
because for the last 14 years, the
American markets have absolutely
dominated. However, this chart shows
which countries made up the largest
share of the world's stock market at
different points in history. And guess
what? It hasn't always been the USA. I
know this looks a bit confusing, but
it's effectively showing the global
stock market just like a cake with
multiple layers. Each color represents a
different country and the thickness of
each layer shows the percentage of the
world's stock market that country makes
up at that point in time. The cake
itself doesn't change. It's always the
global market. What changes is which
layers get thicker and which ones get
thinner. Let's look back at 1900. The
United Kingdom was the global
superpower. As you can see, they had a
nice juicy 24% layer of the global stock
market cake. London was the financial
capital of the world. British companies
dominated global trade and the empire
stretched across huge parts of the
globe. If you were investing at the
time, it would have felt completely
obvious that the UK would remain the
dominant economic force for the next h
100red years. Investing anywhere else
would have seemed ridiculous. And yet,
that's not how history played out. I
remember seeing something very similar
happen later with Japan. I went to Japan
a lot throughout the late 1980s and
early 90s. And at the time, Japanese
companies were performing incredibly
well, particularly in areas like cars,
electronics, and technology. Meanwhile,
the US economy was struggling. Inflation
was high, growth was slowing, and a lot
of people believed that Japan was the
future. So, if you were investing back
then, would you have bet against Japan
and doubled down on America? Probably
not. However, America bounced back big
time. This shows the only thing that's
ever been certain in markets is
uncertainty. Leadership changes,
economic dominant shifts, and no country
stays on top forever. Which is exactly
why I don't want my portfolio to rely
entirely on one market, even one as
strong as the US. Because when you only
invest in the S&P 500, you completely
miss out on companies like TSMC,
Samsung, Toyota, Tencent, Astroenica,
and HSBC. These are global businesses
operating at huge scale, driving real
growth, yet they're excluded purely
because of where their headquarters are
based. So, how am I actually investing
globally? Well, this is Trading 212.
It's the broker I personally use. And if
you go to the search bar and type in
VWRP,
you'll find this global stock market
fund that gives you instant exposure to
pretty much the entire world's economy.
This single fund invests in around 3,700
to 3,800 companies spread across more
than 45 developed and emerging countries
including the US, UK, Europe, Japan, and
fast growing economies like China and
India. And yes, I know if you dig into
what these funds actually hold, you'll
see they're still heavily dominated by
US companies. The difference is what
happens over time. A global fund
automatically rebalances. If the US
becomes less dominant and China or
another country starts outperforming,
the fund adjusts. If the US continues to
lead, it adjusts for that, too. It also
has an extremely low expense ratio of
0.19%.
That means for every $1,000 invested,
you're paying roughly $1.90 annually in
fees, which is pretty cheap. If you're
based in the USA, then I'd recommend
looking into Fidelity's international
fund with the ticker FSPSX.
If all this sounds a bit complicated,
Trading 202 actually make it really
simple with their model pies. These are
pre-built, globally diversified
portfolios put together by professional
asset managers, and you can easily
choose a risk level that feels right for
you. Since I was planning to talk about
Trading 212 anyway, I reached out to see
if they'd like to sponsor this portion
of the video. They agreed and are giving
you free fractional shares worth up to
£100 when you scan this QR code or enter
the promo code Tilbury by tapping this
menu and heading to the promo code
section. If you're new to investing,
then you can put in as little as £1.
Claim your free fractional shares and
start exploring the app before fully
jumping in. You can also invite your
friends, and once they fund their
accounts, you'll both get free
fractional shares.
The best piece of advice I've ever been
given about building real wealth is that
you don't get rich by following the
crowd, you get rich by being early. I've
applied this thinking throughout my
whole life. So, as well as protecting
myself against the potential AI bubble,
I also think it's important to look for
a way to benefit from this new
technology. So, let me talk you through
where I see the biggest opportunities at
the moment. The market naturally breaks
down into four clear zones, each one
filled with different types of
companies. Well, that's how I look at
it. Anyway, let's start with this one. I
call it the crowded zone. Companies in
this zone have a large market cap and
expensive valuation. Think the top
companies in the S&P 500 such as Nvidia,
Tesla, and Meta. It's crowded as
everyone is already investing here, even
passive investors. Under that, we have
the defensive zone. This includes
companies like McDonald's, Walmart, and
CocaCola. These are businesses that
people rely on no matter what the
economy is doing. These are the kinds of
companies value investors like Warren
Buffett love. Their valuations aren't
low, but they're good value because
their earnings are predictable, demand
is stable, and they keep generating cash
year after year. In the top left is the
speculative zone. These are smaller
companies that are extremely hyped and
have valuations that far exceed their
current revenue. They usually have low
or modest market caps, but very
expensive stock prices because investors
are betting on massive future returns.
Examples include companies like Beyond
Meat, Pelaton, and AMC during their hype
phases. I personally stay away from
these kinds of investments as they're
highly speculative and driven by
momentum and internet hype. If you ask
me, it's closer to gambling. That brings
us to this one. I call it the overlooked
zone. Now, this is where I believe there
is a ton of opportunity, especially when
it comes to AI. Let me explain. The
companies in this crowded zone are all
betting on the fact that whoever spends
the most money developing [music] the
absolute best AI model will have all the
profits. But what if that isn't the
case? A pattern I'm seeing more and more
amongst startups, small cap, and medium
cap companies is they're actually giving
the user the ability to pick between
different AI models within their
software. They let users choose between
Claude, Chat GPT, and Gemini, just to
name a few. This is important because
they're now all getting pretty close in
abilities. So, the biggest factor in
what a user chooses might end up being
the price, which would then lead these
companies into a price war, which is
great for people using AI, but not so
great for huge companies that have spent
billions developing these AI models.
It's kind of like petrol or gas if
you're American. Imagine one station
sells it for $1.50 per liter and another
sells petrol that's slightly better
quality for $3 per liter. Sure, a few
people will still pay the extra for the
premium option, but most people will
just buy the cheaper fuel because it
pretty much does the same thing. And
that's the real point. When new
technology becomes good enough and
interchangeable, the value doesn't stay
with the companies that spent the most
money building it. It flows to the
companies that use it in the smartest
way. So, that's exactly why I'm backing
the underdogs. Small and midcap
businesses don't need to win the AI arms
race. They just need to apply AI to real
problems at a lower cost without
carrying billions in debt. That's why
I'm investing in a couple of small and
midcap funds as well as actively looking
for AI startups to invest in. So, if
you're a founder and you're looking for
an experienced investor with a large
social media following, then feel free
to reach out using the email in the
description. I'm currently considering
proposals. Look, if I'm wrong, I lose a
small amount being early. But if I'm
right, I'm positioned where there could
be a massive upside.
I [music] feel like a lot of people
don't understand that every major leap
in technology creates opportunity, but
more importantly, instability. I mean,
AI isn't just changing companies. It's
changing power, currencies, and trust in
the system. That's why I'm increasing my
gold reserves. And I'm not alone. Check
this out. This chart shows China's gold
levels between 2009 and 2025. Up to
2023, they were steadily buying gold.
But as you can see, in recent years,
they've been buying up more gold than
ever. But why does this matter for
everyday investors like us? Well, many
people believe China is trying to
replace the US dollar as they're not
just buying it quietly, they're making
it usable. They've been building
something called the gold corridor which
allows gold to be stored across
different locations and used as a form
of trust in international trade
especially with Brazil, Russia, India
and South Africa otherwise known as the
BRICS nations. And it's not just China.
Gold has now overtaken US treasuries as
the world's largest foreign reserve
asset held by central banks worldwide
for the first time since 1996. So why
are we seeing this sudden shift towards
gold? Well, as of 2025, gold has been
reclassified as a Basel 3 tier 1 asset.
Put simply, gold can now be treated the
same as cash or US treasuries on a
bank's balance sheet, which is a big
change because before this
reclassification, banks weren't allowed
to count its full value. This is having
a big effect on the price of gold
because before this change, most
financial institutions like central
banks, sovereign wealth funds, and
pension funds kept around 20% of their
reserves in gold and equivalent hard
assets. However, the Bank of America
have now published new guidelines saying
that gold reserves should be closer to
30%. That 10% increase is driving up
demand because you can't print more
gold. Some people are even saying in 5
years gold could be worth double what it
is today. And I don't think that's
absolutely unreasonable. [clears throat]
I won't go much deeper into gold in this
video, but if you want me to break it
down in more detail in a future one,
just give this video a thumbs up and let
me know. If we get, let's say, 150,000
likes, then I'll make one right away.
For now, let's skip to the part I know a
lot of you care about. How do you
actually invest in gold? I personally do
it a couple of different ways. Firstly,
I buy physical gold. This is my
long-term insurance and as I'm old
school, I like having something I can
actually hold. Secondly, I dollar cost
average into this EyesShares physical
gold ETF on Trading 212. I like doing
this because it gives me a lot more
flexibility to gradually buy in and move
things around when I need to. So, to be
clear, I'm not trying to buy at the best
possible time, and I'm also not going
all in on gold. I'm simply allocating a
small strategic portion of my portfolio
to gold. the same way countries and
major financial institutions are doing.
The biggest mistake young people make
when investing is not having a big
enough cash reserve in case something
happens in their life, which often
forces them to sell their investments at
the worst possible time. Even as an
older guy, this is still something I
have to consider, especially if we're in
an AI bubble. And you might be
interested to know that Warren Buffett,
the [music] most successful investor of
all time, is currently increasing his
cash pile. [music] Check this out. As
you can see, he's been aggressively
increasing his cash pile over the last
couple of years. And as of Q1 2025, he
has a whopping 347.7
billion in cash and cash equivalents.
This makes sense as he's a value
investor and only buys when the price
makes sense. [music] And right now he
simply doesn't see many opportunities
that justify putting that cash to work.
That's why I'm going to be holding
slightly more cash [music] because if
the markets crash, I don't want it to
negatively affect my life. Having a bit
more cash on hand also gives you the
opportunity to buy more investments when
the market crashes. And I say when, not
if, [music]
because it always happens at some point.
I was also focused on improving my
money-making skills during the com crash
in the early 2000s. [music]
And that came in super handy as I was
able to generate fast money that I could
then invest into the stock market. On
that note, I'm actually teaching you the
fastest path to making $10,000 a month
online without needing startup capital
or business experience [music]
in a free live online event very soon.
So, if you're serious about increasing
your income, then make sure to sign up
for that. I'll leave a link in the
description. This is super important
because cash is king during a stock
market crash.
I've seen way too many people wait years
for a market drop and miss out on
massive gains in the process. That's why
my strategy is simple. I'm still going
to keep putting most of my money into
the S&P 500 so that if AI continues
driving growth, I'm invested in the
businesses leading that change. But to
protect myself from a potential AI
bubble, I'm also diversifying into the
global markets, small and midcap stocks,
gold, and cash. Because the truth is,
nobody knows what the market will do
next. [music] So instead of trying to
predict it, I'm preparing for both
outcomes. If you want to learn exactly
how to invest for beginners step by
step, then I'm going to leave that video
right up there. But don't click on it
just yet. Make sure to subscribe if you
want to grow your wealth. Okay, I see
over